Rehash of statistics page (#16869)
pingcap/docs: statistics.md

# Introduction to Statistics

TiDB uses statistics to decide [which index to choose](/choose-index.md).
Tidb uses statistics as input to the optimizer to estimate the number of rows processed in each plan step for a SQL statement. The optimizer estimates the cost of each available plan choice - including [index accesses](/choose-index.md), the sequence of table joins, and produces a cost for each available plan. The optimizer then picks the execution plan with the lowest overall cost.

## Versions of statistics

The `tidb_analyze_version` variable controls the statistics collected by TiDB. Currently, two versions of statistics are supported: `tidb_analyze_version = 1` and `tidb_analyze_version = 2`.

> - For TiDB Self-Hosted, the default value of this variable changes from `1` to `2` starting from v5.3.0.

Reviewer: We could do some `<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">` here, but I don't think we should.

Author: This custom content is existing. I can certainly remove it if that is preferred.

For the `INSERT`, `DELETE`, or `UPDATE` statements, TiDB automatically updates the number of rows and modified rows. Based upon the number of changes to a table, TiDB will automatically schedule `ANALYZE` to collect statistics on those tables. This is controlled by the [`tidb_enable_auto_anlyze`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze-new-in-v610) system variable. 

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> For the `INSERT`, `DELETE`, or `UPDATE` statements, TiDB automatically updates the number of rows and modified rows. TiDB persists this information regularly and the update cycle is 20 * `stats-lease`. The default value of `stats-lease` is `3s`.

Author: FYI - adding this link for stats-lease fails if added under "<CustomerContent platform="tidb-cloud">" or if used without platform="tidb". Therefore, I changed this to be 60 seconds. Which is consistent with other references to stats-lease.

</CustomContent>

The following system variables related to automatic update of statistics are as follows:

|  System Variable | Default Value | Description |
|---|---|---|
| [`tidb_enable_auto_anlyze`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze-new-in-v610) | true | Controls whether TiDB automatically executes ANALYZE. |
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_ratio) | 0.5 | The threshold value of automatic update |
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_start_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_start_time) | `00:00 +0000` | The start time in a day when TiDB can perform automatic update |
| [`tidb_auto_analyze_end_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_end_time)   | `23:59 +0000` | The end time in a day when TiDB can perform automatic update |

> | [`tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_partition_batch_size-new-in-v640) | `1` | The number of partitions that TiDB automatically analyzes when analyzing a partitioned table (that is, when automatically updating statistics on a partitioned table) |

Author: The value of '1' was incorrect. The default is now 128. It looks like it will process 128 partitions per batch, and merge the results for those 128 and then move onto the next batch of 128.

`WITH NUM SAMPLES` and `WITH FLOAT_NUM SAMPLERATE` correspond to two different algorithms of collecting samples.

> [Histograms](#histogram), [Top-N](#top-n-values) and [CMSketch](#count-min-sketch) (count-min sketch) are explained in their respective sections below, and `SAMPLES`/`SAMPLERATE` is explained in the section on [Improving collection performance](#improving-collection-performance).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [Histograms](#histogram), [Top-N](#top-n-values) and [CMSketch](#count-min-sketch) (Count-Min Sketch) for detailed explanations. For `SAMPLES`/`SAMPLERATE`, see [Improving collection performance](#improving-collection-performance).
```

TiDB records the values and occurrences of Top-N values. The default value is 20, meaning the top 20 most frequent values are collected. The maximum value is 1024. For details about the parameter that determines the number of values collected, refer to [Manual collection](#manual-collection).

## Selective statistics collection

### Collect statistics on indexes

To collect statistics on all indexes in `IndexNameList` in `TableName`, use the following syntax:

```sql
ANALYZE TABLE TableName INDEX [IndexNameList] [WITH NUM BUCKETS|TOPN|CMSKETCH DEPTH|CMSKETCH WIDTH]|[WITH NUM SAMPLES|WITH FLOATNUM SAMPLERATE];
```

When `IndexNameList` is empty, this syntax collects statistics on all indexes in `TableName`.

> **Note:**
>
> To ensure that the statistical information before and after the collection is consistent, when `tidb_analyze_version` is `2`, this syntax collects statistics on the entire table (including all columns and indexes), instead of only on indexes.

### Collect statistics on some columns

In most cases, the optimizer only uses statistics on columns in the `WHERE`, `JOIN`, `ORDER BY`, and `GROUP BY` statements. These columns can be referred to as `PREDICATE COLUMNS`.

> If a table has many columns, collecting statistics on all the columns can cause a large overhead. To reduce the overhead, you can collect statistics on only specific columns (that you choose) or `PREDICATE COLUMNS` to be used by the optimizer. To persist the column list of any subset of columns for reuse in future, refer to the section [Persisting Column Configurations](#persisting-column-configurations).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a table has many columns, collecting statistics on all the columns can cause a large overhead. To reduce the overhead, you can collect statistics on only specific columns (that you choose) or `PREDICATE COLUMNS` to be used by the optimizer. To persist the column list of any subset of columns for reuse in future, refer to [Persisting column configurations](#persisting-column-configurations).
```

#### Collect statistics of partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode

When accessing partitioned tables in [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) (which is the default since v6.3.0), TiDB collects table-level statistics, which is called GlobalStats. Currently, GlobalStats is aggregated from statistics of all partitions. In dynamic pruning mode, a statistics update of any partitioned table can trigger the GlobalStats to be updated.

If partitions are empty, or columns for some partitions are missing, then the collection behavior is controlled by the [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) variable:

>     - If some partitions have no statistics (such as a new partition that has never been analyzed), GlobalStats generation is interrupted and a warning message is displayed saying that no statistics are available on partitions.
>     - If statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions (different columns are specified for analyzing in these partitions), GlobalStats generation is interrupted when statistics of these columns are aggregated, and a warning message is displayed saying that statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If some partitions have no statistics (such as a new partition that has never been analyzed), GlobalStats generation is interrupted and a warning message is displayed saying that no statistics are available on partitions.

    - If statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions (different columns are specified for analyzing in these partitions), GlobalStats generation is interrupted when statistics of these columns are aggregated, and a warning message is displayed saying that statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions.
```

> - When GlobalStats update is triggered and [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) is `ON`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When GlobalStats update is triggered and [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) is `ON`:
```

>      If statistics of all or some columns are missing for some partitions, TiDB skips these missing partition statistics when generating GlobalStats so the generation of GlobalStats is not affected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If statistics of all or some columns are missing for some partitions, TiDB skips these missing partition statistics when generating GlobalStats so the generation of GlobalStats is not affected.
```

>     - In dynamic pruning mode, the Analyze configurations of partitions and tables should be the same. Therefore, if you specify the `COLUMNS` configuration following the `ANALYZE TABLE TableName PARTITION PartitionNameList` statement or the `OPTIONS` configuration following `WITH`, TiDB will ignore them and return a warning.

Reviewer 2: It seems that the format of these lines is not expected. 
<img width="1108" alt="image" src="https://github.com/pingcap/docs/assets/30922556/de1b45d3-d0ea-4fba-b207-e3de7e344e15">

>     - In dynamic pruning mode, the Analyze configurations of partitions and tables should be the same. Therefore, if you specify the `COLUMNS` configuration following the `ANALYZE TABLE TableName PARTITION PartitionNameList` statement or the `OPTIONS` configuration following `WITH`, TiDB will ignore them and return a warning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In dynamic pruning mode, the Analyze configurations of partitions and tables should be the same. Therefore, if you specify the `COLUMNS` configuration following the `ANALYZE TABLE TableName PARTITION PartitionNameList` statement or the `OPTIONS` configuration following `WITH`, TiDB will ignore them and return a warning.
```

#### Collect statistics of partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode

When accessing partitioned tables in [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) (which is the default since v6.3.0), TiDB collects table-level statistics, which is called GlobalStats. Currently, GlobalStats is aggregated from statistics of all partitions. In dynamic pruning mode, a statistics update of any partitioned table can trigger the GlobalStats to be updated.

If partitions are empty, or columns for some partitions are missing, then the collection behavior is controlled by the [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) variable:

>     - If some partitions have no statistics (such as a new partition that has never been analyzed), GlobalStats generation is interrupted and a warning message is displayed saying that no statistics are available on partitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If some partitions have no statistics (such as a new partition that has never been analyzed), GlobalStats generation is interrupted and a warning message is displayed saying that no statistics are available on partitions.
```

>     - If statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions (different columns are specified for analyzing in these partitions), GlobalStats generation is interrupted when statistics of these columns are aggregated, and a warning message is displayed saying that statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions (different columns are specified for analyzing in these partitions), GlobalStats generation is interrupted when statistics of these columns are aggregated, and a warning message is displayed saying that statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions.
```

</CustomContent>

### The memory quota for collecting statistics

> **Warning:**
>
> Currently, the `ANALYZE` memory quota is an experimental feature, and the memory statistics might be inaccurate in production environments.

Since TiDB v6.1.0, you can use the system variable [`tidb_mem_quota_analyze`](/system-variables.md#tidb_mem_quota_analyze-new-in-v610) to control the memory quota for collecting statistics in TiDB.

To set a proper value of `tidb_mem_quota_analyze`, consider the data size of the cluster. When the default sampling rate is used, the main considerations are the number of columns, the size of column values, and the memory configuration of TiDB. Consider the following suggestions when you configure the maximum and minimum values:

> **Note:**
>
> The following suggestions are for reference only. You need to configure the values based on the real scenario.

> > - Minimum value: should be greater than the maximum memory usage when TiDB collects statistics from the table with the most columns. An approximate reference: when TiDB collects statistics from a table with 20 columns using the default configuration, the maximum memory usage is about 800 MiB; when TiDB collects statistics from a table with 160 columns using the default configuration, the maximum memory usage is about 5 GiB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>
> - Minimum value: should be greater than the maximum memory usage when TiDB collects statistics from the table with the most columns. An approximate reference: when TiDB collects statistics from a table with 20 columns using the default configuration, the maximum memory usage is about 800 MiB; when TiDB collects statistics from a table with 160 columns using the default configuration, the maximum memory usage is about 5 GiB.
```

```
MD032/blanks-around-lists Lists should be surrounded by blank lines [Context: "> - Minimum value: should be g..."]
```

#### Collect statistics of partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode

When accessing partitioned tables in [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) (which is the default since v6.3.0), TiDB collects table-level statistics, which is called GlobalStats. Currently, GlobalStats is aggregated from statistics of all partitions. In dynamic pruning mode, a statistics update of any partitioned table can trigger the GlobalStats to be updated.

If partitions are empty, or columns for some partitions are missing, then the collection behavior is controlled by the [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) variable:

> - If some partitions have no statistics (such as a new partition that has never been analyzed), GlobalStats generation is interrupted and a warning message is displayed saying that no statistics are available on partitions.

Reviewer 3: The default value of `tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats` is `ON`, so it is better to make the condition here clearly.

#### Collect statistics of partitioned tables in dynamic pruning mode

When accessing partitioned tables in [dynamic pruning mode](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) (which is the default since v6.3.0), TiDB collects table-level statistics, which is called GlobalStats. Currently, GlobalStats is aggregated from statistics of all partitions. In dynamic pruning mode, a statistics update of any partitioned table can trigger the GlobalStats to be updated.

> If partitions are empty, or columns for some partitions are missing, then the collection behavior is controlled by the [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) variable:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If partitions are empty, or columns for some partitions are missing, then the collection behavior is controlled by the [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) variable:
```

> If partitions are empty, or columns for some partitions are missing, then the collection behavior is controlled by the [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) variable:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If partitions are empty, or columns for some partitions are missing, then the collection behavior is controlled by the [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) variable:
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> When GlobalStats update is triggered and [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) is `OFF`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When GlobalStats update is triggered and [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) is `OFF`:
```

> - If some partitions have no statistics (such as a new partition that has never been analyzed), GlobalStats generation is interrupted and a warning message is displayed saying that no statistics are available on partitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If some partitions have no statistics (such as a new partition that has never been analyzed), GlobalStats generation is interrupted and a warning message is displayed saying that no statistics are available on partitions.
```

> - If statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions (different columns are specified for analyzing in these partitions), GlobalStats generation is interrupted when statistics of these columns are aggregated, and a warning message is displayed saying that statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions (different columns are specified for analyzing in these partitions), GlobalStats generation is interrupted when statistics of these columns are aggregated, and a warning message is displayed saying that statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions.
```

> When GlobalStats update is triggered and [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) is `ON`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When GlobalStats update is triggered and [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) is `ON`:
```

> - If statistics of all or some columns are missing for some partitions, TiDB skips these missing partition statistics when generating GlobalStats so the generation of GlobalStats is not affected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - If statistics of all or some columns are missing for some partitions, TiDB skips these missing partition statistics when generating GlobalStats so the generation of GlobalStats is not affected.
```

    - If statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions (different columns are specified for analyzing in these partitions), GlobalStats generation is interrupted when statistics of these columns are aggregated, and a warning message is displayed saying that statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions.

- When GlobalStats update is triggered and [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) is `ON`:

     If statistics of all or some columns are missing for some partitions, TiDB skips these missing partition statistics when generating GlobalStats so the generation of GlobalStats is not affected.

    - In dynamic pruning mode, the Analyze configurations of partitions and tables should be the same. Therefore, if you specify the `COLUMNS` configuration following the `ANALYZE TABLE TableName PARTITION PartitionNameList` statement or the `OPTIONS` configuration following `WITH`, TiDB will ignore them and return a warning.

> ## Improving Collection Performance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Improving collection performance
```

> **Note:**
>
> - The execution time of `ANALYZE TABLE` in TiDB may be longer than in MySQL or InnoDB. In InnoDB, only a small number of pages are sampled, while by default in TiDB a comprehensive set of statistics are completely rebuilt.
> -  Starting from v7.5.0, the [Fast Analyze feature (`tidb_enable_fast_analyze`)](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_analyze) and the [incremental collection feature](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/statistics#incremental-collection) for statistics are deprecated.

TiDB provides two options to improve the performance of statistics collection:

1. Collecting statistics on a subset of the columns. See [Collecting Statistics on Some Columns](#collect-statistics-on-some-columns).
2. Sampling.

> ### Statistics Sampling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Statistics sampling
```

If partitions are empty, or columns for some partitions are missing, then the collection behavior is controlled by the [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) variable:

- If some partitions have no statistics (such as a new partition that has never been analyzed), GlobalStats generation is interrupted and a warning message is displayed saying that no statistics are available on partitions.

- If statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions (different columns are specified for analyzing in these partitions), GlobalStats generation is interrupted when statistics of these columns are aggregated, and a warning message is displayed saying that statistics of some columns are absent in specific partitions.

When GlobalStats update is triggered and [`tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_skip_missing_partition_stats-new-in-v730) is `ON`:

> If statistics of all or some columns are missing for some partitions, TiDB skips these missing partition statistics when generating GlobalStats so the generation of GlobalStats is not affected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If statistics of all or some columns are missing for some partitions, TiDB skips these missing partition statistics when generating GlobalStats so the generation of GlobalStats is not affected.
```

| The `ANALYZE` column type | AnalyzeColumnOption ::= ( 'ALL COLUMNS' \| 'PREDICATE COLUMNS' \| 'COLUMNS' ColumnNameList ) |
| The `ANALYZE` column | ColumnNameList ::= Identifier ( ',' Identifier )* |

### Enable ANALYZE configuration persistence

> 

Reviewer 3: in L327, "Disable ANALYZE configuration persistence" needs to be at the same level ("update it to `### Disable ANALYZE configuration persistence`)

- If the `ANALYZE` statement is executed manually, manually analyze every table to be analyzed.

    ```sql
    SELECT DISTINCT(CONCAT('ANALYZE TABLE ', table_schema, '.', table_name, ';'))
    FROM information_schema.tables JOIN mysql.stats_histograms
    ON table_id = tidb_table_id
    WHERE stats_ver = 2;
    ```

- If TiDB automatically executes the `ANALYZE` statement because the auto-analysis has been enabled, execute the following statement that generates the [`DROP STATS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-drop-stats.md) statement:

    ```sql
    SELECT DISTINCT(CONCAT('DROP STATS ', table_schema, '.', table_name, ';'))
    FROM information_schema.tables ON mysql.stats_histograms
    ON table_id = tidb_table_id
    WHERE stats_ver = 2;
    ```

- If the result of the preceding statement is too long to copy and paste, you can export the result to a temporary text file and then perform execution from the file like this:

    ```sql
    SELECT DISTINCT ... INTO OUTFILE '/tmp/sql.txt';
    mysql -h ${TiDB_IP} -u user -P ${TIDB_PORT} ... < '/tmp/sql.txt'
    ```

## View statistics

You can view the `ANALYZE` status and statistics information using the following statements.

> ### View `ANALYZE` state

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### `ANALYZE` state
```

Reviewer 3: reason: to use the same style as other subsection titles in **View statistics**
![image](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/assets/79440533/674746e7-60e4-41f5-99c6-50607aa00ff9)

>
> When you enable the `ANALYZE` configuration persistence feature again, if the previously recorded persistence configurations are no longer applicable to the latest data, you need to execute the `ANALYZE` statement manually and specify the new persistence configurations.

> ### Persisting Column Configurations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Persisting column configurations
```

> ### Persisting column configurations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Persist column configurations
```

| Db_name | Table_name | Partition_name | Column_name | Last_used_at        | Last_analyzed_at    |
+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| test    | t          |                | b           | 2022-01-05 17:21:33 | 2022-01-05 17:23:06 |
| test    | t          |                | c           | NULL                | 2022-01-05 17:23:06 |
| test    | t          |                | d           | NULL                | 2022-01-05 17:23:06 |
+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## Versions of statistics

The `tidb_analyze_version` variable controls the statistics collected by TiDB. Currently, two versions of statistics are supported: `tidb_analyze_version = 1` and `tidb_analyze_version = 2`.

- For TiDB Self-Hosted, the default value of this variable changes from `1` to `2` starting from v5.3.0.
- For TiDB Cloud, the default value of this variable changes from `1` to `2` starting from v6.5.0.
- If your cluster is upgraded from an earlier version, the default value of `tidb_analyze_version` does not change after the upgrade.

> Version 2 is preferred, and will continue to be enhanced to ultimately replace Version 1 completely. Compared to Version 1, Version 2 improves the accuracy of many of the statistics collected for larger data volumes. Version 2 also improves collection performance by removing the need to collect Count-Min sketch statistics for predicate selectivity estimation, and also supporting automated collection only on selected columns (see section on [Collecting Statistics on Some Columns](#collect-statistics-on-some-columns)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Version 2 is preferred, and will continue to be enhanced to ultimately replace Version 1 completely. Compared to Version 1, Version 2 improves the accuracy of many of the statistics collected for larger data volumes. Version 2 also improves collection performance by removing the need to collect Count-Min sketch statistics for predicate selectivity estimation, and also supporting automated collection only on selected columns (see [Collecting statistics on some columns](#collect-statistics-on-some-columns)).
```

The following table lists the information collected by each version for usage in the optimizer estimates:

| Information | Version 1 | Version 2|
| --- | --- | ---|
| The total number of rows in the table | √ | √ |
| Equal/IN predicate estimation | √ (Column/Index Top-N & Count-Min Sketch) | √ (Column/Index Top-N & Histogram) |
| Range predicate estimation | √ (Column/Index Top-N & Histogram) | √ (Column/Index Top-N & Histogram) |
| `NULL` predicate estimation | √ | √ |
| The average length of columns | √ | √ |
| The average length of indexes | √ | √ |

> ### Switching between statistics versions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Switch between statistics versions
```

> It is recommended to ensure that all tables/indexes (and partitions) utilize statistics collection from the same version. Version 2 is recommended, however it is not recommended to switch from one version to another without a justifiable reason such as an issue experienced with the version in use. A switch between versions may involve a period of time when no statistics are available until all tables have been analyzed with the new version, which may negatively impact the optimizer plan choices if statistics aren't available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended to ensure that all tables/indexes (and partitions) utilize statistics collection from the same version. Version 2 is recommended, however, it is not recommended to switch from one version to another without a justifiable reason such as an issue experienced with the version in use. A switch between versions might take a period of time when no statistics are available until all tables have been analyzed with the new version, which might negatively affect the optimizer plan choices if statistics are not available.
```

> Examples of justifications to switch may include - with Version 1, there could be inaccuracies in equal/IN predicate estimation due to hash collisions when collecting count-min sketch statistics. Solutions are listed in the section on [Count-Min Sketch](#count-min-sketch). Alternatively, setting `tidb_analyze_version = 2` and rerunning `ANALYZE` on all objects is also a solution. Early release of Version 2, there was a risk of memory overflow after `ANALYZE`. This issue is resolved, but initially, one solution was to `set tidb_analyze_version = 1` and rerunning `ANALYZE` on all objects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Examples of justifications to switch might include - with Version 1, there could be inaccuracies in equal/IN predicate estimation due to hash collisions when collecting Count-Min sketch statistics. Solutions are listed in the [Count-Min Sketch](#count-min-sketch) section. Alternatively, setting `tidb_analyze_version = 2` and rerunning `ANALYZE` on all objects is also a solution. In the early release of Version 2, there was a risk of memory overflow after `ANALYZE`. This issue is resolved, but initially, one solution was to `set tidb_analyze_version = 1` and rerun `ANALYZE` on all objects.
```

| Column name | Description            |
| -------- | ------------- |
| `Db_name`  |  The database name    |
| `Table_name` | The table name |
| `Partition_name` | The partition name |
| `Column_name` | The column name |
| `Last_used_at` | The last time when the column statistics were used in the query optimization |
| `Last_analyzed_at` | The last time when the column statistics were collected |

In the following example, after executing `ANALYZE TABLE t PREDICATE COLUMNS;`, TiDB collects statistics on columns `b`, `c`, and `d`, where column `b` is a `PREDICATE COLUMN` and columns `c` and `d` are index columns.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SET GLOBAL tidb_enable_column_tracking = ON;
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

CREATE TABLE t (a INT, b INT, c INT, d INT, INDEX idx_c_d(c, d));
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

-- The optimizer uses the statistics on column b in this query.
SELECT * FROM t WHERE b > 1;
Empty set (0.00 sec)

-- After waiting for a period of time (100 * stats-lease), TiDB writes the collected `PREDICATE COLUMNS` to mysql.column_stats_usage.
-- Specify `last_used_at IS NOT NULL` to show the `PREDICATE COLUMNS` collected by TiDB.

> SHOW COLUMN_STATS_USAGE WHERE db_name = 'test' AND table_name = 't' AND last_used_at IS NOT NULL;

Author: Moved the WHERE clause to the 2nd line. Honestly not sure what the actual request is here. Sorry.

+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+---------------------+------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

ANALYZE TABLE t PREDICATE COLUMNS;
Query OK, 0 rows affected, 1 warning (0.03 sec)

-- Specify `last_analyzed_at IS NOT NULL` to show the columns for which statistics have been collected.
SHOW COLUMN_STATS_USAGE WHERE db_name = 'test' AND table_name = 't' AND last_analyzed_at IS NOT NULL;
+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| Db_name | Table_name | Partition_name | Column_name | Last_used_at        | Last_analyzed_at    |
+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| test    | t          |                | b           | 2022-01-05 17:21:33 | 2022-01-05 17:23:06 |
| test    | t          |                | c           | NULL                | 2022-01-05 17:23:06 |
| test    | t          |                | d           | NULL                | 2022-01-05 17:23:06 |
+---------+------------+----------------+-------------+---------------------+---------------------+
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> ## Versions of statistics

Author: In the current layout of the documentation - the statistics version information is first. As a reader and user of the ANALYZE statement - one of the least frequent actions I should be taking is changing the statistics version. However, when I first went to read the statistics page - the more common actions I would take were somewhere in the middle or towards the end - and were thus difficult/cumbersome to find. You ultimately scroll through less important information to get to what is likely to be important.

My opinion here is of course very personal - from my own experience in trying to decipher our statistics options. And my goal here was to reorganize the information to prioritize the more frequently used information first.

I am open to other input however.

| A partitioned table and the whole table is locked | The lock is invalid | The lock is invalid because TiDB deletes the old table, so the lock information is also deleted | The old partition lock information is invalid, and the new partition is automatically locked | The new partition is automatically locked | The lock information of the deleted partition is cleared, and the lock of the whole table continues to take effect | The lock information of the deleted partition is cleared, and the new partition is automatically locked | The lock information is transferred to the exchanged table, and the new partition is automatically locked |
| A partitioned table and only some partitions are locked | The lock is invalid | The lock is invalid because TiDB deletes the old table, so the lock information is also deleted | The lock is invalid because TiDB deletes the old table, so the lock information is also deleted | / | The deleted partition lock information is cleared | The deleted partition lock information is cleared | The lock information is transferred to the exchanged table |

> ## Manage ANALYZE tasks and concurrency

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Manage `ANALYZE` tasks and concurrency
```

| A partitioned table and the whole table is locked | The lock is invalid | The lock is invalid because TiDB deletes the old table, so the lock information is also deleted | The old partition lock information is invalid, and the new partition is automatically locked | The new partition is automatically locked | The lock information of the deleted partition is cleared, and the lock of the whole table continues to take effect | The lock information of the deleted partition is cleared, and the new partition is automatically locked | The lock information is transferred to the exchanged table, and the new partition is automatically locked |
| A partitioned table and only some partitions are locked | The lock is invalid | The lock is invalid because TiDB deletes the old table, so the lock information is also deleted | The lock is invalid because TiDB deletes the old table, so the lock information is also deleted | / | The deleted partition lock information is cleared | The deleted partition lock information is cleared | The lock information is transferred to the exchanged table |

> ## Managing ANALYZE tasks and concurrency

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Manage ANALYZE tasks and concurrency
```

### Terminate background `ANALYZE` tasks

Since TiDB v6.0, TiDB supports using the `KILL` statement to terminate an `ANALYZE` task running in the background. If you find that an `ANALYZE` task running in the background consumes a lot of resources and affects your application, you can terminate the `ANALYZE` task by taking the following steps:

1. Execute the following SQL statement:

>     {{< copyable "sql" >}}
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
